1 
React-JS Overview 
What is the React-JS 
React-JS is an Open Source JavaScript library which is used for  creating dynamic and interactive user interfaces (UI  Components) for web applications and many other  applications. 
React-JS was created by Jordan Walke, who is a software  engineer at Facebook, 



Features of the React-JS 
∙ It is more flexible compare to other JS frameworks. 
∙ It is provide declarative and efficient approach for all  types of the applications. 
∙ It is completely follow the component based approach  which is more convenient to handle large applications. 
∙ It is provide server side headlining easily.
2 



History of the React-JS 
∙ React-JS was first deployed by Jordan on Facebook's  News in 2011. 
∙ After some time it were applied on Instagram in 2012. ∙ It was open-sourced at JSConf US in May 2013. 
∙ React Native, was announced at Facebook’s in February  2015 for android & IOS. 
∙ On April 18, 2017, Facebook announced React Fibre,  which is a new core algorithm of React library for  building user interfaces. 
3 
How Does React JS Work? 
✔ React-JS works with virtual Dom which is used for faster  rendering and everything like header, footer,etc is made  by its components. 
✔ So using React-JS, you can update anything on the web  page without reloading it. 
✔ Internal Working in React-JS 
✔ React-JS creates a virtual DOM and keeps all those  components data in that virtual DOM then renders data  on the web page. 
✔ If we want to change data of any components then  React-JS creates again a new Virtual DOM for that data  and compares it with the old virtual DOM. 
4 
✔ After that React-JS finds changes in components and  renders only those changes on the web page.  
What is the Component? 


∙ In React-JS we can create multiple re-usable 
components which is updated every time and it is the  power of React-JS.  
∙ A component is a building block of React-JS which is the  containers, div, or sections with proper view structures  & data. 
For example header, footer, sidebar, image gallery, table, list,  or form etc.  
All these parts of the web page can be created by  components. 
5



Famous Applications Using React-JS 
1. Facebook 
2. Instagram 
3. Netflix 
4. WhatsApp 
5. Myntra 
6. Discord 



Features & Main Concepts of the React-JS 
1. JSX 
2. Components  
3. Components Life Cycle 
4. Props & State 
5. Events  
6. Events with State 
7. Conditional Rendering 
8. Loops in React-JS 
9. Data Binding in React-JS 
Etc.
6
